README.md, before:

# Copart & IAA Fees API

## Overview

This API calculates total vehicle auction costs for Copart and IAAI bids.  
It applies auction specific rules and tiered fee tables to return a complete fee breakdown, including bidding fees, payment fees, and the final total amount owed.


## Base URL


https://www.auctionfeescalculator.com/api/fees


## Authentication

All requests require an API key.

**Header**
```

x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY

```

Requests without a valid key return `401 Unauthorized`.

---

## Request

### Method
```

POST

```

### Headers
```

Content-Type: application/json
x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY

````

### Body

```json
{
  "bidAmount": 1200,
  "auction": "copart",
  "bidType": "online",
  "bidPay": "secured",
  "bidVehicle": "standard"
}
````

### Fields

| Field      | Type   | Required | Description                                |
| ---------- | ------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| bidAmount  | number | yes      | Bid amount greater than 0                  |
| auction    | string | yes      | `copart` or `iaai`                         |
| bidType    | string | yes      | `online`, `kiosk`, `non-kiosk`             |
| bidPay     | string | yes      | `secured`, `unsecured`, `standard`, `high` |
| bidVehicle | string | yes      | Vehicle category                           |

---

## Auction Rules

### Copart

* bidType: online, kiosk, non-kiosk
* bidPay: secured, unsecured, standard, high
* bidVehicle: standard, heavy, crashedToys

### IAAI

* bidType: online, kiosk
* bidPay: standard, high
* bidVehicle: licensed, non-licensed, recRides, heavy

Invalid combinations return `400 Bad Request`.

---

## Response

### Success `200`

```json
{
  "bidAmount": 1200,
  "result": {
    "totalAmount": 1465,
    "calculatedPaymentFee": 250,
    "calculatedBiddingFee": 85
  }
}
```

### Fields

| Field                | Description            |
| -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| totalAmount          | Bid plus all fees      |
| calculatedPaymentFee | Payment processing fee |
| calculatedBiddingFee | Auction bidding fee    |

---

## Errors

### Invalid input `400`

```json
{ "error": "Invalid bidAmount" }
```

### Unsupported option `400`

```json
{
  "error": "IAAI does not support bidType \"non-kiosk\". Use \"online\" or \"kiosk\"."
}
```

### Unauthorized `401`

```json
{ "error": "Unauthorized" }
```

---
## Examples

### Copart (JavaScript)

```js
fetch("https://www.auctionfeescalculator.com/api/fees", {
  method: "POST",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
    "x-api-key": "YOUR_API_KEY"
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    bidAmount: 1500,
    auction: "copart",
    bidType: "online",
    bidPay: "secured",
    bidVehicle: "standard"
  })
})
  .then(res => res.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data))
````

### IAAI (JavaScript)

```js
fetch("https://www.auctionfeescalculator.com/api/fees", {
  method: "POST",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
    "x-api-key": "YOUR_API_KEY"
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    bidAmount: 1500,
    auction: "iaai",
    bidType: "online",
    bidPay: "standard",
    bidVehicle: "licensed"
  })
})
  .then(res => res.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data))
```

---

## Support

For questions or access requests, contact the API owner.

```
bobthebaugd@gmail.com
```

Commit message:

Revise README for Copart and IAAI Fees API
Updated API documentation to reflect changes in bidPay and bidVehicle requirements for Copart and IAAI. Added vehicle category section and clarified auction rules.

README.md, after:

# Copart & IAAI Fees API

## Overview

This API calculates total vehicle auction costs for Copart and IAAI bids.  
It applies auction specific rules and tiered fee tables to return a complete fee breakdown, including bidding fees, payment fees, and the final total amount owed.


## Base URL


https://www.auctionfeescalculator.com/api/fees


## Authentication

All requests require an API key.

**Header**
```

x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY

```

Requests without a valid key return `401 Unauthorized`.

---

## Request

### Method
```

POST

```

### Headers
```

Content-Type: application/json
x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY

````

### Body

```json
{
  "bidAmount": 1200,
  "auction": "copart",
  "bidType": "online",
  "bidPay": "secured",
  "bidVehicle": "standard"
}
````

### Fields

| Field      | Type   | Required | Description                                |
| ---------- | ------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| bidAmount  | number | yes      | Bid amount greater than 0                  |
| auction    | string | yes      | `copart` or `iaai`                         |
| bidType    | string | yes      | `online`                                   |
| bidPay     | string | yes      | `unsecured`(Copart) AND  `standard`(IAAI)  |
| bidVehicle | string | yes      | Vehicle category                           |

---

## Vehicle Category

`bidVehicle` must match the vehicle category supported by the selected auction.
Use only valid category values for the chosen auction and vehicle type. Invalid or unsupported values will return a 400 Bad Request.

### Copart

* bidVehicle: Standard, Heavy, Crashed-Toys

### IAAI

* bidVehicle: licensed, non-licensed, recRides,heavy

---

## Auction Rules

### Copart

* bidType: **online**, kiosk, non-kiosk
* bidPay: secured, **unsecured**, standard, high

### IAAI

* bidType: online, kiosk
* bidPay: standard, high

Invalid combinations return `400 Bad Request`.

---

## Response

### Success `200`

```json
{
  "bidAmount": 1200,
  "result": {
    "totalAmount": 1465,
    "calculatedPaymentFee": 250,
    "calculatedBiddingFee": 85
  }
}
```

### Fields

| Field                | Description            |
| -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| totalAmount          | Bid plus all fees      |
| calculatedPaymentFee | Payment processing fee |
| calculatedBiddingFee | Auction bidding fee    |

---

## Errors

### Invalid input `400`

```json
{ "error": "Invalid bidAmount" }
```

### Unsupported option `400`

```json
{
  "error": "IAAI does not support bidType \"non-kiosk\". Use \"online\" or \"kiosk\"."
}
```

### Unauthorized `401`

```json
{ "error": "Unauthorized" }
```

---
## Examples

### Copart (JavaScript)

```js
fetch("https://www.auctionfeescalculator.com/api/fees", {
  method: "POST",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
    "x-api-key": "YOUR_API_KEY"
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    bidAmount: 1500,
    auction: "copart",
    bidType: "online",
    bidPay: "unsecured",
    bidVehicle: "standard"
  })
})
  .then(res => res.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data))
````

### IAAI (JavaScript)

```js
fetch("https://www.auctionfeescalculator.com/api/fees", {
  method: "POST",
  headers: {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
    "x-api-key": "YOUR_API_KEY"
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    bidAmount: 1500,
    auction: "iaai",
    bidType: "online",
    bidPay: "standard",
    bidVehicle: "licensed"
  })
})
  .then(res => res.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data))
```

---

## Support

If any part of this documentation is unclear or you need help with integration, please contact us for clarification or support.

```
bobthebaugd@gmail.com
```
